add rslint page (#1)
navarroaxel/navarroaxel.github.io: blog/rslint-a-extremely-fast-javascript-linter.md

> # RSLint - A extremely fast JavaScript linter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# RSLint - An extremely fast JavaScript linter
```

> ESLint is a de facto solution for [linting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_%28software%29) JavaScript code. Also, `C` is the first that comes to our minds when we talk about compile some code of every kind. I know that a lot of compilers are compiled using the language that they compile 😕. But when we talk about parsers, abstract syntax trees (AST), and compile to binary: `C` comes to our minds. Maybe I'm old, I don't know. 🤔

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ESLint is a de facto solution for [linting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_%28software%29) JavaScript code. Also, `C` is the first thing that comes to our minds when we talk about compile some code of every kind. I know that a lot of compilers are compiled using the language that they compile 😕. But when we talk about parsers, abstract syntax trees (AST), and compile to binary: `C` comes to our minds. Maybe I'm old, I don't know. 🤔
```

> ESLint is a de facto solution for [linting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_%28software%29) JavaScript code. Also, `C` is the first that comes to our minds when we talk about compile some code from every kind. I know that a lot of compilers are compiled using the language that them compiles 😕. But when, we talk about parsers, abstract syntax trees (AST), and compile to binary: `C` comes to our minds. Maybe I'm old, I don't know. 🤔

Reviewer 2: ESLint is a de facto solution for [linting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lint_%28software%29) JavaScript code. Also, `C` is the first that comes to our minds when we talk about compile some code of every kind. I know that a lot of compilers are compiled using the language that they compile 😕. But when we talk about parsers, abstract syntax trees (AST), and compile to binary: `C` comes to our minds. Maybe I'm old, I don't know. 🤔

> And, in this post I'll talk about another linters for JavaScript that are growing around today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And, in this post I'll talk about other linters for JavaScript that are growing around nowadays.
```

## The Deno alternative

> Deno has re-thought the Node.js world with lots of really great decisions: a built-in bundler, documentation generator, a code formatter, and 🥁... [deno_lint](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint), a linter made in Rust 🦾.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deno has re-thought the Node.js world with a lot of really great decisions: a built-in bundler, documentation generator, a code formatter, and 🥁... [deno_lint](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint), a linter made in Rust 🦾.
```

> Deno has re thinked the Node.js world with lots of really great decisions, a built-in bundler, documentation generator, a code formatter, and 🥁... [deno_lint](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint), a linter made in Rust 🦾.

Reviewer 2: Deno has re thought the Node.js world with lots of really great decisions: a built-in bundler, documentation generator, a code formatter, and 🥁... [deno_lint](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint), a linter made in Rust 🦾.

> Why Rust 🦀? Well, it's a powerful language: thread-safe and memory safe without a garbage collector. We can expect better speed than that of a statically typed language with a performance similar to `C`. And this includes more speed than JavaScript for an intensive CPU usage task: parse and analyze code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why Rust 🦀? Well, it's a powerful language: thread-safe and memory safe without a garbage collector. We can expect better speed than a statically typed language with a performance similar to `C`. And this includes more speed than JavaScript for an intensive CPU usage task: to parse and analyze code.
```

### deno lint

> The `deno_lint` try to support the recommended set of rules from ESLint and TypeScript out of the box. But, this still doesn't [support JSX code](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint/issues/148), so it's not easy to use with our React projects. 😞

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `deno_lint` tries to support the recommended set of rules from ESLint and TypeScript out of the box. But, this still doesn't [support JSX code](https://github.com/denoland/deno_lint/issues/148), so it's not easy to use with our React projects. 😞
```

> You can try it using `npm install @node-rs/deno-lint` in your nodejs project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try it by using `npm install @node-rs/deno-lint` in your nodejs project.
```

## RSLint

> Another linter appeared and is called [RSLint](https://github.com/RDambrosio016/RSLint), but is for JavaScript 🙃. This project is still in early development, that means it isn't ready for production yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another linter appeared and is called [RSLint](https://github.com/RDambrosio016/RSLint), but it's only for JavaScript 🙃. This project is still in early development, that means it isn't ready for production yet.
```

> RSLint uses [rowan](https://docs.rs/rowan/latest/rowan), A Rust library for syntax trees that was developed for [Rust analyzer](https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer). Rowan models trees as immutable syntax trees, instead of mutable AST that are expensive to clone.

Author: ```suggestion
RSLint uses [rowan](https://docs.rs/rowan/latest/rowan), a Rust library for syntax trees that was developed for [Rust analyzer](https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer). Rowan models trees as immutable syntax trees, instead of mutable AST that are expensive to clone.
```

> RSLint uses [rowan](https://docs.rs/rowan/latest/rowan), a Rust library for syntax trees that was developed for [Rust analyzer](https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer). Rowan models trees as immutable syntax trees, instead of mutable AST that are expensive to clone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RSLint uses [rowan](https://docs.rs/rowan/latest/rowan), a Rust library for syntax trees that was developed for [Rust analyzer](https://github.com/rust-analyzer/rust-analyzer). Rowan models trees are immutable syntax trees, instead of mutable AST that are expensive to clone.
```

Reviewer: Creo que quisiste poner eso

> RSLint only implements around 25 rules nowadays, but the implementation of ESLint reccomended rules and support for JSX is in the roadmap.

Author: ```suggestion
`RSLint` only implements around 25 rules nowadays, but the implementation of ESLint reccomended rules and support for JSX is in the roadmap.
```

> `RSLint` only implements around 25 rules nowadays, but the implementation of ESLint reccomended rules and support for JSX is in the roadmap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`RSLint` only implements around 25 rules nowadays, but the implementation of ESLint recommended rules and support for JSX is in the roadmap.
```

> Also `RSLint` will be available as a npm package as well with a pre-built binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also `RSLint` will be available as an npm package as well with a pre-built binary.
```

### Can we say this is better?

> Not at the moment, but due to the immutability of the trees the highly parallelization is a fact: «files linted in parallel, rules run in parallel, nodes could be traversed in parallel in the future» said the README.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not at the moment but, due to the immutability of the trees, the highly parallelization is a fact: «files linted in parallel, rules run in parallel, nodes could be traversed in parallel in the future» said the README.
```

The Rust like errors is a big different with the ESLint output, sometimes is not very friendly and you should web search which means the violation of a specific rule. If `RSLint` parse this code:

```javascript
if true {
  /* */
} else {
  /* */
}
```

We can get this output:

```
error[SyntaxError]: Expected token `L_PAREN` but instead found `TRUE_KW`
  ┌─ tests\main.js:1:4
  │
1 │ if true {
  │    ^^^^ Unexpected

error[SyntaxError]: Expected token `R_PAREN` but instead found `L_CURLY`
  ┌─ tests\main.js:1:9
  │
1 │ if true {
  │         ^ Unexpected

error[no-constant-condition]: Unexpected constant condition
  ┌─ tests\main.js:1:4
  │  
1 │   if true {
  │      ^^^^ this condition is always truthy...
2 │     /* */
3 │   } else {
  │ ┌────────'
4 │ │   /* */
5 │ │ }
  │ └─' ...which makes this unreachable
```

💡 Wait, can RSLint parse JavaScript with invalid syntax? Yes!

> «The error recovery capabilities of `RSLint` refers to a parser being able to take in incorrect source code, and still parse a mostly correct AST out of it. Most linters do not attempt this at all. For example, ESLint and deno_lint's parsers make no attempt at recovery. When the parsers encounter an error they return an error result and quit parsing, producing no AST.

Author: ```suggestion
> The error recovery capabilities of `RSLint` refers to a parser being able to take in incorrect source code, and still parse a mostly correct AST out of it. Most linters do not attempt this at all. For example, ESLint and deno_lint's parsers make no attempt at recovery. When the parsers encounter an error they return an error result and quit parsing, producing no AST.
```

> > The error recovery capabilities of `RSLint` refers to a parser being able to take in incorrect source code, and still parse a mostly correct AST out of it. Most linters do not attempt this at all. For example, ESLint and deno_lint's parsers make no attempt at recovery. When the parsers encounter an error they return an error result and quit parsing, producing no AST.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The error recovery capabilities of `RSLint` is based on a parser being able to take an incorrect source code, and still parse a mostly correct AST from it. Most linters do not attempt this at all. For example, ESLint and deno_lint's parsers make no attempt at recovery - when encountering an error, they return an error result and quit parsing, producing no AST.
```

> This means it's impossible for the linters to lint wrong code, which is an amazing feature for on-the-fly linting in things such as IDEs.» 😮

Author: ```suggestion
> This means it's impossible for the linters to lint wrong code, which is an amazing feature for on-the-fly linting in things such as IDEs.
```

> > This means it's impossible for the linters to lint wrong code, which is an amazing feature for on-the-fly linting in things such as IDEs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This means it's impossible for the linters to lint wrong code, which is an amazing feature for on-the-fly linting in tools such as IDEs.
```
